OBSDOCS-1801: Loki - Adjust Queries for both OTEL and ViaQ (#94828)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/loki-alerts.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging_alerts/default-logging-alerts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="loki-alerts_{context}"]
= {loki-op} alerts

The following alerts are generated by the {loki-op}. You can view these alerts in the {ocp-product-title} web console.

.{loki-op} alerts
[cols="2,2,2,1",options="header"]
|===
|Alert |Message |Description |Severity

|`LokiRequestErrors`
|`{{ $labels.job }} {{ $labels.route }} is experiencing <value>% errors.`
|At least 10% of requests are responded by 5xx server errors.
|Critical

|`LokiStackWriteRequestErrors`
|`<value>% of write requests from {{ $labels.job }} in <namespace> are returned with server errors.`
|At least 10% of write requests to the lokistack-gateway are responded with 5xx server errors.
|critical

|`LokiStackReadRequestErrors`
|`<value>% of query requests from {{ $labels.job }} in <namespace> are returned with server errors.`

> |At least 10% of query requests to the lokistack-gateway are responded with 5xx server errors.

Reviewer: This one's missing a column and I think that throws off the rest of the table.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging_alerts/default-logging-alerts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="loki-alerts_{context}"]
= {loki-op} alerts

The following alerts are generated by the {loki-op}. You can view these alerts in the {ocp-product-title} web console.

.{loki-op} alerts
[cols="2,2,2,1",options="header"]
|===
|Alert |Message |Description |Severity

|`LokiRequestErrors`
|`{{ $labels.job }} {{ $labels.route }} is experiencing <value>% errors.`

> |At least 10% of requests are responded by 5xx server errors.

Reviewer 2: Maybe:
```suggestion
|At least 10% of requests result in 5xx server errors.
```

|critical

|`LokiStackWriteRequestErrors`
|`<value>% of write requests from {{ $labels.job }} in <namespace> are returned with server errors.`

> |At least 10% of write requests to the lokistack-gateway are responded with 5xx server errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|At least 10% of write requests to the lokistack-gateway are responded to with `5xx` server errors.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|At least 10% of write requests to the lokistack-gateway result in `5xx` server errors.
```

|critical

|`LokiStackReadRequestErrors`
|`<value>% of query requests from {{ $labels.job }} in <namespace> are returned with server errors.`

> |At least 10% of query requests to the lokistack-gateway are responded with 5xx server errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|At least 10% of query requests to the lokistack-gateway are responded to with `5xx` server errors.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe:
```suggestion
|At least 10% of query requests to the lokistack-gateway result in `5xx` server errors.
```

|critical

|`LokiRequestPanics`
|`{{ $labels.job }} is experiencing an increase of <value> panics.`
|A panic was triggered.
|critical

|`LokiRequestLatency`
|`{{ $labels.job }} {{ $labels.route }} is experiencing <value>s 99th percentile latency.` 

> |The 99th percentile is experiencing latency higher than 1 second.

Reviewer 2: Per the [Red Hat Technical Writing Style Guide](https://stylepedia.net/style/#numbers):  Spell out ... numbers zero through nine...
```suggestion
|The 99th percentile is experiencing latency higher than one second.
```

|critical

|`LokiTenantRateLimit`
|`{{ $labels.job }} {{ $labels.route }} is experiencing 429 errors.`
|At least 10% of requests are received the rate limit error code.
|warning

|`LokiStorageSlowWrite`
|`The storage path is experiencing slow write response rates.`
|The storage path is experiencing slow read response rates.
|warning

|`LokiWritePathHighLoad`
|`The write path is experiencing high load.``
|The write path is experiencing high load causing backpressure storage flushing.
|warning

|`LokiReadPathHighLoad`
|`The read path is experiencing high load.`
|The read path has high volume of queries  causing longer response times.
|warning

|`LokiDiscardedSamplesWarning`
|`Loki in namespace "<namespace>" is discarding samples in the "<tenant>" tenant during ingestion. Samples are discarded because of "<reason>" at a rate of <value> samples per second.`
|Loki is discarding samples during ingestion because they fail validation.
|warning

|`LokistackSchemaUpgradesRequired`
|`The LokiStack "{{ $labels.stack_name }}" in namespace "<namespace>" is using a storage schema

> configuration that does not contain the latest schema version. It is recommended to update the schema configuration to update the schema version to the latest` 

Reviewer 2: Not sure about this one, but the sentence is confusing to me.
```suggestion
configuration that does not contain the latest schema version. It is recommended to update the schema configuration with the correct schema version to the latest` 
```
